# Deep-Learning-For-Predicting-NBA-Games

The objective of this project was to predict the winners of NBA games using past data and various tree based and deep learning classifiers. After collecting data from the end of the 2020-2021 NBA season, I engaged in feature engineering. The features consisted of the average of various basketball statitics for the past five games for both the home and away teams for each matchup. Each feature was essentially a five game moving average for each team. In total, there were 38 features (19 for the home team and 19 for the away team). Some examples of features are average points, average 3 point percentage, average plus minus, average fouls, average blocks etc, all over the five games preceding each matchup. 

The data wrangling consisted of defining a function to get the 5 game moving average for each team and then using loops to apply the function to each team. Union and merge operations were also used in the course of the data maniupulation. After all the wrangling, a final dataset was produced, consisting of the home and away teams and their 5 game moving averages at the date of the game. 

After processing the data, I trained a random forest model, which had a 65.45% accuracy on the test set (about 55 games). Gradient boosting classifiers were less effective, in the low 60s. However, the most effective model turned out to be an artificial neural network with four hidden layers with 38, 60, 60, and 38 nodes, respectively, and 5,000 iterations (epochs). This model produced a 67.27% accuracy on the test set, which is on par with many published models and papers. 
